hey everybody Ryan Groff and your author
speaker chef restaurateur and founder of
the restaurant boss comment today I'm
going to show you one of my favorite
tips that will help you save money in
your restaurant so what this is is this
is called a key item inventory report or
just key item inventory for short and
see I subscribe to the 80/20 rule I
believe that 20% of your efforts should
yield you eighty percent of the results
or at least we should focus on what 20
percent will give us eighty percent of
the results you know I'm a huge
proponent of taking a date or I'm sorry
a monthly inventory in your restaurant I
push restaurant tours to take an
inventory every other week I even push
restaurant tours to take a weekly
inventory it's not for everyone it
depends on your volume and your labor
accessibility and how many dollars you
can spend on it and if it's really going
to give you that impact that 8020 rule
but this one report I have every single
restaurant I work with no matter what
their labor levels are they should be
running a key item inventory report and
what the key item inventory report does
basically I suggest maybe six to fifteen
items depending how big your restaurant
is depending what's important your
restaurant but what you're going to do
and I'm going to bring this up on the
screen for in a second here is you're
going to count those most expensive
items in your restaurant your shrimp
your lobster your hamburgers your steaks
your chicken breasts etc and that's it
it's already portioned out it's easy to
do but basically at the beginning of a
shift or at the beginning of a day
whichever you decide to do whether you
want to do a daily key item inventory or
a shift key item inventory you're going
to go through and you're just going to
count how many you have and then you're
going to go back into the computer and
you're going to run a plu report or a P
mix report to see how many of those
items sold the previous shift or the
previous day and then you're going to
calculate an ideal inventory and we're
going to go into an example of this but
really you'll be able to track a
variance and see how many am I missing
am i accurate if they're missing where
did they go are they on the waist log
that's great if they're on the waist log
then we know hey the cook overcooked it
well that's fine it's not ideal but then
we can at least adjust we can train
because we know that I'm short one stake
it went into the trash because it got
overcooked and I've got the comp for it
but what this will also do is it will
let you find out if your cooks are
snacking on your steaks if they're
stealing your steaks you're going to be
able to know exactly where your most
expensive products in your restaurant
are and it will dramatically save you on
your food costs so let's go inside my
computer and check out what a sample key
item inventory or key item report looks
like okay so as you can see you've got
the date and then running along the top
you've got opening inventory purchased
or slash prepared total available and
then in a new kind of box or column or
category we've got quantity sold or
comped ideal ending ideal or I'm sorry
actual ending and then the variance so
basically like let's look at eight ounce
hamburgers for example if you start your
day or your shift with 34 hamburgers and
you purchased or prepared 0 that day
then you have 34 available for sale now
at the end of the day or at the end of
the shift when you go to your computer
to your POS system and run a PLU or P
mix report and you find out that you
sold 22 hamburgers during that period
that means you should have ideal ending
inventory you should have 12 hamburgers
on the line either at the end of the
night or in the morning or before your
shift starts but you actually have 11
which means you're missing one so now
the first thing I do is I would run to
my waste sheet and I would find out was
there one put on the waste well if there
wasn't one on the waste then somebody
stole one or somebody ate one period end
of story there's no questions about it
you've got a hamburger missing and you
need to find out where that is now let's
look at something like shrimp for
example if you notice I did that as
orders so not per shrimp this makes it
easier you should be portioning your
shrimp into order so if you have five
pieces of shrimp that go into a pasta
dish they should be in portion bags with
the five and then we're going to count
how many orders so then if you have an
opening inventory of 15 bags of shrimp
and you prepared 15 more bags that means
you have 30 available for sale then when
you run to your computer you may be use
soul
19 and 2 got comped I don't know but
basically 21 are accounted for in your
POS system which means you should have
nine you only have five which means
you're missing four again go to your
waste sheet if it's not on your way
sheet find out what's going on in your
restaurant and in cioppino the only
reason I gave that example I'm not going
to go all the way through it is it's
kind of the same idea shrimp
we're like cioppino might have shrimp
and scallops and fish and mussels and
clams and things is instead of counting
each one of those again they should be
portioned into bags so you can just say
that I have four bags of cioppino and
alright and I prepped five so we have
nine available and we sold six bags so
you're not counting each individual just
a little trick of mine to save you time
but you can see here and I've actually
I've made this available below the video
you can download this key item inventory
report and you can customize it for for
your restaurant I've got instructions on
the report as well but basically you can
see the value of this now I spoke a lot
about a waste sheet if you don't know
what a way she it is I'm going to do
some training next week on a waste sheet
which really coincides with this I hope
this was helpful for you please put this
key item inventory report in to use in
your restaurant immediately this is very
simple it takes no more than five maybe
ten minutes a day from start to finish
you can also customize the PLU report or
the P mix report in your POS to to print
out only the items you're interested in
you can make what's called a memorized
report in your system so again this has
been Ryan Graham Fionn the restaurant
boss saying have a wonderful day good
luck and go put that key item inventory
report into action if you have any
questions comment below this video and
let me know ask me a question I'm
constantly checking in here and I'd love
to answer them for you and make this
process as easy as possible I know
you're going to see huge results and get
a huge impact out of doing this on a
daily basis Ryan Groff and saying have a
great day